\begin{abstract}
% JMS s/API/interface/g
There are many user-level network APIs for connecting and exchanging
data between peers.  Each API varies widely when evaluating them based
on metrics including (but not limited to) performance, portability,
and complexity.  Specifically, many APIs make design or implementation
choices that end up emphasizing some or the more desirable metrics
(e.g., performance) while sacrificing others (e.g., portability).  As
a direct result, software developers striving to build large,
network-based applications end up having to choose which network API
to use based on a complex, multi-dimensional set of criteria -- but
still inevitably end up with an API that fails to deliver features in
at least some desirable metrics.

In this paper, we introduce a novel API that both supports many
features that have become standard (or otherwise generally expected)
in other communication APIs, and strives to export a small,
simplistic, yet powerful, interface.  The interfaces in this new API
draw upon years of networking diverse networking research spanning
from theories of developer best practices to systems-level
implementation algorithms.  The goal was to create a relatively
simple, high-level communications API -- one that might even feel
somewhat ``familiar'' to developers because of its roots in many
other, existing network APIs -- that still provides important features
such as scalability, resiliency, and performance.  The result is the
Common Communications Infrastructure (CCI) API: an API that is simple
enough to implement in hardware, explicitly designed to incur minimal
overhead from a host operating system, and performant enough to meet
the needs of network-intensive applications.
\end{abstract}
